README.md, before:


# Multilingual

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/588732594.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/588732594)

Steve Martin, Children's Mercy Hospital, Kansas City, MO<br>
Jen Hoitenga, Children's Mercy Hospital, Kansas City, MO

********************************************************************************
## Deprecated

This module has been deprecated in favor of REDCap's built-in Multi-Language Management feature. No features will be added. Bugs might be fixed if you report them, but probably won't be. All users of this module are encouraged to phase out projects that use it and migrate new work to REDCap's built-in Multi-Language Management features. REDCap's built-in features are much easier to use.


## Instructions

###Getting Started
- Add a variable called languages as a multiple choice field listing your languages as the choices. Make sure you add the action tag @HIDDEN. Make sure your choice values for languages are numeric, starting with 1. Example:<br>
1, English<br>
2, Español

- Refresh the page and you're ready to start entering translations. Remember you have to add the field first and save, then go back and edit it to add translations.

###Title and Instructions
- To add translations for the Survey Title and Instructions for an instrument, add a variable called survey_text_[form_name]. Each instrument should have it's own field with a variable name of "survey_text_[form name]" (Replace [form name] with the name of each instrument). Make sure you add the action tag @HIDDEN.

###Completion Text
- To add translations for Survey Completion Text, add a variable called survey`_text`_finish. Make sure you add the action tag @HIDDEN.

- If you have just one instrument, you can just add the survey`_text`_finish variable and add the Title, Instructions and Completion Text to it.

###Survey Settings (v1.11+)
- Version 1.11 of the module introduces the ability to specify Save & Return Later, e-Consent, and general survey text translations at an instrument's Survey Settings page.
- After creating a 'languages' field for the instrument, navigate to REDCap's Online Designer and click 'Survey Settings'.
- Select a translation language from the drop down below the Survey Status row. This will enable you to change the various text trasnlation settings available.
- After saving your changes, the provided translations will be available to survey participants.

###Default Translations (1.13+)
- The survey settings page now has a drop-down with options to pre-fill the survey settings with the following languages:
English
German
Spanish
French
Italian
Japanese
Deutsch
Polish
Portuguese
Portuguese (Brazil)
Russian
Chinese (Simplified)

###PDF Translate (1.14+)
If the "Translate PDFs on a per-instrument basis" checkbox is selected in the module configuration, the multilingual module will translate PDFs generated by REDCap. The PDFs will be translated on a per-instrument basis, and each instrument will be translated to the language that the user selected for that instrument's survey (if a user did, in fact, select an alternate language while taking that instrument's survey).

###PHP 8.x support (1.14.2)

###More Documentation
- <a href="https://cmhredcap.cmh.edu/plugins/media/7610-how-to-use-multilingual-external-module.docx">Click Here</a>

********************************************************************************

Commit message:

Update README to indicate repository is archived
This repository has been archived and is no longer actively maintained. It has been superseded by REDCap Core features as of REDCap 12.0.0.

README.md, after:


# Multilingual - ARCHIVED

**This repository has been archived and is no longer actively maintained.**

This project was archived as of October 1, 2025. This project has been superseded by REDCap Core features as of REDCap 12.0.0. Please don't hesitate to use this code in accordance with the license; however, the authors are unable to offer any additional support.

-----------


[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/588732594.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/588732594)

Steve Martin, Children's Mercy Hospital, Kansas City, MO<br>
Jen Hoitenga, Children's Mercy Hospital, Kansas City, MO

********************************************************************************
## Deprecated

This module has been deprecated in favor of REDCap's built-in Multi-Language Management feature. No features will be added. Bugs might be fixed if you report them, but probably won't be. All users of this module are encouraged to phase out projects that use it and migrate new work to REDCap's built-in Multi-Language Management features. REDCap's built-in features are much easier to use.


## Instructions

###Getting Started
- Add a variable called languages as a multiple choice field listing your languages as the choices. Make sure you add the action tag @HIDDEN. Make sure your choice values for languages are numeric, starting with 1. Example:<br>
1, English<br>
2, Español

- Refresh the page and you're ready to start entering translations. Remember you have to add the field first and save, then go back and edit it to add translations.

###Title and Instructions
- To add translations for the Survey Title and Instructions for an instrument, add a variable called survey_text_[form_name]. Each instrument should have it's own field with a variable name of "survey_text_[form name]" (Replace [form name] with the name of each instrument). Make sure you add the action tag @HIDDEN.

###Completion Text
- To add translations for Survey Completion Text, add a variable called survey`_text`_finish. Make sure you add the action tag @HIDDEN.

- If you have just one instrument, you can just add the survey`_text`_finish variable and add the Title, Instructions and Completion Text to it.

###Survey Settings (v1.11+)
- Version 1.11 of the module introduces the ability to specify Save & Return Later, e-Consent, and general survey text translations at an instrument's Survey Settings page.
- After creating a 'languages' field for the instrument, navigate to REDCap's Online Designer and click 'Survey Settings'.
- Select a translation language from the drop down below the Survey Status row. This will enable you to change the various text trasnlation settings available.
- After saving your changes, the provided translations will be available to survey participants.

###Default Translations (1.13+)
- The survey settings page now has a drop-down with options to pre-fill the survey settings with the following languages:
English
German
Spanish
French
Italian
Japanese
Deutsch
Polish
Portuguese
Portuguese (Brazil)
Russian
Chinese (Simplified)

###PDF Translate (1.14+)
If the "Translate PDFs on a per-instrument basis" checkbox is selected in the module configuration, the multilingual module will translate PDFs generated by REDCap. The PDFs will be translated on a per-instrument basis, and each instrument will be translated to the language that the user selected for that instrument's survey (if a user did, in fact, select an alternate language while taking that instrument's survey).

###PHP 8.x support (1.14.2)

###More Documentation
- <a href="https://cmhredcap.cmh.edu/plugins/media/7610-how-to-use-multilingual-external-module.docx">Click Here</a>

********************************************************************************
